>> Good afternoon and welcome to
Unlocking the Potential of Dashcode.
I'm Phil Schuler.
And before we get going, I have just a couple of questions.
Just a show of hands, how many out there had a chance to
download and get their hands on the Dashcode beta for Tiger?
Oh, that's good.
And how many of you have had a
chance to mess around with Dashcode
in the Leopard beta you've had for a couple of days?
Oh, some people have had some quality laptop time I see.
So, what do we mean when we say
unlocking the potential of Dashcode?
What we mean is making customization pay off.
So, taking custom art, a little bit of custom code,
and in fact a surprisingly small amount of it,
and turning a template into a unique expression of your
brand and what it is you want to accomplish in your widget.
But then also we're talking about some
very powerful features in Dashcode.
The debugger for instance which you may have
seen if you've seen some other sessions here.
We're gonna show you a little bit more
and how it's not just for debugging.
We're also going to show you some
glitz and glamour techniques,
how you can make some widgets that are fun and easy to use.
And we're going to show you the Dashcode localization
workflow which is so easy to use we're betting you're going
to want to localize all of your widgets from now on.
So I'm going to get things going with
a very easy little demonstration just
to get our brains up and running a little bit after lunch.
What I'm going to do is I am going to take an RSS template,
I'm going to make a new widget and I'm going to turn it
into a widget that feeds up two different feeds.
Pretty simple.
Now, how am I going to do that?
I'm going to brand the widget.
I work for a little company called Apple and I'm going
to use Apple feeds and I'm going to use Apple artwork
to make it look like it's a widget that maybe even
Steve would approve of, although I wouldn't bet on that.
I'm going to add parts from the Dashcode
library to extend the UI and that's very simple.
I'll show you how to do that.
Just a tiny bit of coding which is all you want
me to do because I'm no Java script expert.
But that's good because I'm going to show
you how easy it is to do, even for me.
I'm going to run the widget in Dashcode and we're all
going to burst into spontaneous applause when we see
that I've done what I said I was going to do.
Let's go to the demo machine.
Before we launch into Dashcode I just wanted to
show you what it is we're dealing with content wise.
So there are two feeds in particular
that I'm interested in from Apple.
The iTunes Top 10 Songs, which is what you
see before you, and the Top 10's Album feed.
Now as to look and feel, maybe some
of you are familiar with this look.
It just happens to be plastered all over the world.
So that's basically the look I'm going
for and I'm going to use these two feeds.
So, let's get going.
I'm going to launch Dashcode and pick the RSS template.
Easy as that, I'm up and running.
And just so we can see what it is I'm doing, I'll make this
nice and big, kind of bigger than you'd want a widget to be,
but just sort of big enough so
that we can get a feel for it.
Now, like so many templates, the RSS template allows
you to just drop a URL onto it to set the feed source.
So that's how I'm going to get going.
I'm going to take the top ten songs feed, I'm just going
to grab it out of Safari and drop it onto my widget.
If I rename this...
iTunes Top Ten Songs, that's pretty much it.
If I want to ship a stock looking widget with one feed, I'm
practically done, but that's not what you came here to see,
so we're going to go in and do a little customization.
Now, as I said, I want to customize the look.
And I'm a UI guy so I like to work from the outside in
and get the interface right first before I do a code.
Dashcode allows you to work both ways.
It doesn't really matter.
I just prefer to work this way.
So, I know I want the look to change.
So this header and footer really aren't of much use to me.
I'm just going to get rid of them.
And what I'm going to replace them with is
a little bit of art that I did in Photoshop.
So if you have a little bit of Photoshop skills
or know somebody who does, easy enough to do.
I'm just going to drag both of these pieces
of art in and place them where I want them.
So you can see that I used the
theme from the iTunes commercial
to get a particular look and that's pretty much it.
So it's obscured some other content on my widget.
All I need to do is grab those two
elements, and I can do that over here
in the navigator, and I'm going to drag them underneath.
So now I've branded my widget.
It's an expression of my brand.
Steve's brand.
Sorry. So again, if I just wanted to ship a
single feed widget that had my brand in it,
I'm just about done, but you didn't come to see that either.
You may not have come to see any of this,
but, I'm going to show you something anyway.
What I want to do is allow the users
of my widget to switch the feed.
So right now they're seeing songs
if they just ran this widget,
so I want to give them an affordance
to switch to the albums feed.
So they're going to need a button to click on.
And the way I can add that is just bring up the library
in Dashcode, in the parts tab, which is coming soon,
we have a whole lot of parts that you can
add to your widget to extend the interface.
They're really easy to work with
and provide a lot of functionality.
I want to add a button.
In fact, I want to grab this one, the lozenge button.
All I need to do is drag it onto
my widget and there, it's in place.
Size it a little bit...
Rename it.
So now it's an albums button.
It's kind of sticking out like a sore thumb.
So I can style it a little bit.
Bring up the Inspector and in the fill and stroke Inspector,
right here, I can do things like change it to a gradient,
I can add some glass to it, some fairly common things.
I'm going to make these little semi-transparent which is
a nice little design trick to make it look like it's sort
of built of the same stuff of the thing that it's on top of.
And so now I've got a button, great!
What does it do?
Nothing. I haven't wired it up yet.
But that's easy enough to do too.
And the way I do that is in the Inspector again.
I can select the albums button, bring up the
Inspector, and go to the last tab, the Behaviors tab.
Now the Behaviors tab lets me wire up all of the events
that this object listens to, to handlers in my code.
So all I need to do is double click in
the Handlers and I can start typing.
And you can see it autocompletes for me.
So if I already have a function written, I
can just wire it up very simply like this.
But I want to actually create a new handler so
all I need to do is type in a new handler name.
Now what just happened?
Well, Dashcode created a new function for me.
It took the name I gave it and made a new function, stubbed
it in, opened the code to show me where it was putting it
and left me a little place to insert my code.
Now, like I said, I'm not much of a coder and you sure
don't want to watch me mistype this again and again.
So I'm going to show you another nice bit of functionality
in the library, and that's the Code Snippets Library.
Dashcode comes with a whole bunch
of code snippets that help you
out with some pretty common things
that you want to do in Java script.
It also allows you to save your own.
That's what I did.
I prepared these snippets a while ago and
I just saved them back into the library.
So now I can reuse them by dragging them back.
So I'm just gonna drag this back
and let's see what we have here.
I'm now setting the feed source which I
should tell you why I'm setting it that.
How about this for a demo?
Now, why am I calling Set Feed Source?
Well, I happen to know how this widget works.
But I'm gonna show you how you might understand it too.
So I'm going to go up to the search field and type
feed, because we're dealing with feeds, right?
So, the search field in Dashcode lets me search
throughout my widget project to find elements, code,
styles, all kinds of things that I can use.
and you'll see that when I search for feed,
it found objects, events, functions, styles,
end files and even the line numbers
where these surfer results appeared.
And here's the one I've already blown my cool reveal of,
Set Feed Source.
That's the one that I need to wire up to.
And that's exactly what I'm doing.
So let me go back to my function and we can see
that what I'm doing is I'm calling Set Feed Source.
So I'm passing it in the URL of the
albums feed instead of the songs feed.
And I know that because it says Top Albums right there.
And then I'm doing a refresh feed so that
I know that the content is up to date.
There's one more thing I need to do and that is
the title of this widget is Top Ten Songs so I know
that when the user switches to albums I
need to switch the title of the widget too.
And that's easy enough to do.
I also have a code snippet for that.
And what I'm doing here is I'm using our old
friend Get Element by ID, the Feed Title.
And that element, the Feed Title, is this
element and I know that again because I can look
in the Navigator and see that that's its name.
And I'm setting its inner HTML, in other words,
the text inside of it, to be Top Ten Albums.
So, hey, I'm pretty close to being done.
I now have a widget that gets the songs feed
and lets the user switch the albums feed.
But they may want to switch back.
Darn users!
So, I can do that just like I did before.
I want to work from the UI in again.
So all I'm going to do now is I'm just going to duplicate
this button, Command D, and let's rename this to Songs.
Now it's still wired up to the albums feed
handler and I don't want that so I want
to wire this up to another one, Songs Feed.
So, again, just like with Albums Feed, Dashcode made
anew function for me and took me there in the code view
and all I need to do is add some code, which,
again I'm not going to make you watch me type.
And this will look pretty familiar to you by now.
I'm setting the Feed Source, this time to songs.
I'm refreshing the feed, and I'm setting the Feed Title too.
So now, if the demo gods are with
me, I will have a working widget.
Let's see if I'm wrong.
Here it is loading.
We've got songs!
We're almost there.
Top Ten Songs and Top Ten Albums!
There! All right!
Can we go back to slides please?
Okay, well, what'd you just learn?
I'm not the best demoer in the world.
But, you learned that custom art pays off, right?
So a little bit of art goes a long way.
What you want to do with your widgets is express your brand
to your users so they know it's your widget and they know
to go to you for more widgets in the future.
Parts make customization very easy.
You saw how easy it was to just drag
a button out, style it, wire it up.
Boom! I'm done.
And clicking buttons is a lot of fun.
So, we're not going to stop there though
because that was a fairly lame demo.
What we're going to do now is we're
going to show you so more in-depth stuff.
We're going to write our own code from scratch.
We're going to interact with feeds but not just RSS feeds
because RSS is pretty prevalent out there but there's a lot
of other data out there that you might need to work with.
We're going to show you how to interact with those
feeds and learn how they work so that you can parse them
in your widget and extract the data out of them.
We're also going to take this project and we're
going to iterate through the design steps.
So we're going to start out with something
very simple and we're going to move along
until we get something that's fairly fun.
And we're going to show you, of
course, how Dashcode makes that easy.
Here's the set up.
When my stock portfolio is up I'm happy.
My mood is good.
When my stock portfolio is down, my mood is bad.
So, you know, it doesn't get a lot simpler than that.
So I thought well, what would be a good way to express that?
Well, what came to mind immediately is the
glass is half full or it isn't half full.
But that's what I want.
I want a widget that looks at my stock portfolio, figures
out how I'm doing and then tells me what my mood is.
It's either half full or half empty.
Now, as I told you, I'm not much of a coder, so what
I did, I did the sensible thing and that is I got one
of my engineer friends to help me with it.
And to tell you all about that is Mike Kahl, engineer
extraordinaire and master of the Dashcode debugger.
Mike!
>> Thanks Max.
My name's Mike Kahl and I work on the Dashcode JavaScript
debugger which I'll be showing you in a few minutes.
Max has asked me to help us get started
on this money mood widget which is going
to display our mood based on how
our stock portfolio is doing.
Now, I'm not much of a UI guy.
I'm here to do the behind the scenes work of this widget, so
we're just going to use that graphic of a glass that we got
from Max and if our stocks are doing
well the glass will seem half full
and if our stocks are doing poorly
then glass will seem half empty.
So, let's get started.
This widget follows a common design pattern for widgets.
We go out to the Web, we request some data, the
data arrives and we load it up into our widget.
Now for this widget, the data is available
from a feed provided by Yahoo Finance.
You tell it which stocks you're interested in and
it gives you the information about that stock.
And the JavaScript object that we're going to use
to retrieve that data is called XML HTTP Request.
As the name implies, XML HTTP Request is usually
used to fetch data that is in XML format.
But that's not required.
It can fetch data that's in any format.
And this particular data is not in XML format.
So we're going to have to figure
out how to parse it ourselves.
Then we'll process the data, crunch it down to
just one number representing our mood and finally,
we'll present some initially simple
UI to display the result.
Okay, let's write some code.
We begin by creating our XML HTTP Request object.
Ultimately, we're going to send that object
out onto the Web to retrieve our data.
First we have to tell it where to go to find
the data and we're going to disable caching
because we don't want stale data,
we want up to the minute data or,
in the case of stocks, up to the twenty minute delay data.
Now, there's one more thing we have to do.
When we request this data, it's going to
take a few milliseconds for it to arrive
and even though that's not a long time from a
programming point of view, that's an asynchronous event
so we have to specify a call back function.
And this function will be called
to notify us when the data arrives.
Our call back function just checks that the request
completed successfully and calls another function,
Data Ready, which looks something like this.
Remember our three P's - Parse, Process, Present?
We're going to parse the feed, process
the data and present the results.
Now, we haven't seen this data yet.
So we don't know exactly how to write a parsing code.
But a good goal would be to create an array of stocks with
one entry with information about each stock in our portfolio
and then we can pass that array to
a function to calculate our mood.
And once we've got our mood as a number, we
can call another function to display the UI.
All right.
So we're ready to run this code even
though we haven't finished writing it.
It would be a good idea to test what we
have so far and also, more importantly,
we're going to use Dashcode's debugger
to inspect this feed live and experiment
and figure out how to write the parsing code.
So, let's go to the demo.
Okay, so here's our widget.
I've already done a little bit of work on it.
I've incorporated the graphic of a glass that I got from
Max and I typed in this code that we just saw in the slides.
I took the XML HTTP Request set up code and I
wrapped it in a function called Request Data,
and down here is our Data Ready function.
So, there's a few things that we do have
to do before we're ready to run this code.
First of all, this is obviously not the real URL, so
let's get rid of that and I'm going to drag in the code
to construct the real URL as a function
of which stocks are in our portfolio.
Now, where is that coming from?
How does the widget know which stocks are in our portfolio?
Well, ultimately, this widget will have a back and we'll
be able to configure our portfolio of each stock we have.
But, for getting started, let's just hard wire that.
So I'm going to drag in some more code.
By the way, every time I drag in code just please
pretend that I'm a very fast and accurate typist.
So we'll start with the initial portfolio with
100 shares of Apple and just five shares of Google
because that's all the Google we can afford.
Okay, so we're ready to run the widget.
I'm going to set a break point here at the
entry to this data ready function so that
when the data arrives we can take a look, and click run.
Up comes the widget and nothing happens.
What did we do wrong?
Well, we did forget to do one thing.
We never actually called that request
data function that we wrote.
So we never asked for the data, no data arrived.
We could stop the widget, insert that
code, start over, but we don't have to.
We can use Dashcode's evaluator
which is a live JavaScript console.
Allows us to type in anything in JavaScript and
have it evaluated so we can do it on the fly.
And, just in that fraction of a second, it
went out to the Web, it requested the data,
the data came back and we hit our break point.
So now the widget is paused at this break point.
Here's the line of code that's about to be executed.
Up here we have the local variables that
are visible in this frame and their values.
We can single step and a value got
assigned to this variable called data.
And that's our feed.
So let's take a closer look at that.
We'll go back to the Evaluator.
Now what we need to do here is figure out how to take
this big long string and extract from it the information
that we need in order to calculate our mood.
So, it looks like we've got multiple lines in that
string, one line for each stock that we requested.
So the first step would be to split it up into lines
and I'm going to use carriage return, new line,
as a separator because I noticed that these lines
actually end in a carriage return as well as a new line.
And that gives us an array of three elements.
Well, why three elements?
There are only two stocks.
Well, let's take a look.
The first element is the first line.
The second element is the second line.
Well, what's the third element?
It's the empty string.
Why do we have an empty string?
Well, that empty string is the one that follows the
final carriage return new line in our original string.
So it's an artifact of the way the split function works.
But that's okay, we can still use the split function but
we just need to make a mental note when we write the code,
if we see any empty strings we should just ignore them.
Okay, now I want to show you another
way we could have done what we just did.
Instead of looking at each element that we write
individually, we could have created a local variable
on the fly here in the Evaluator, to hold that array.
Now, as I enter this, watch up here with the
variables and you'll see a new variable being created.
There it is, it's called lines and
it's an array of three elements
and we can twist it down and see all the strings at once.
All right, so let's move on.
Now we need to look inside each line
and extract the fields for that stock.
And let's use that same technique.
We'll create a variable called fields and we'll use
the Apple line and it looks like this data is separated
by commas, so this time let's split on comma.
And if we look up here, that gave us
a new local variable called fields.
It's an array of nine elements.
We can twist it down and we can see all of the fields.
There's the ticker symbol, the current
price, down here is the daily delta,
the difference between the current
price and yesterday's close.
And the other values in this array, we don't
really care about for the purpose of this widget.
We're just going to concentrate on those three.
Now, each of these three fields needs a little bit
of massaging before it's really
exactly in the format that we want.
For example, this ticker symbol has some
extraneous quotes in it that we don't want.
So let's see if we can figure out
how to get rid of those quotes.
Let's try replacing those quotes with the empty string.
That'll be our first try.
And it doesn't quite work.
It only removed the first quote.
We need to remove all the quotes.
So let's try again.
This time, let's use a regular expression
because that gives us the opportunity
to specify that we want to replace globally.
And that worked.
So now, by experimenting in the Evaluator, we have figured
out how to write the code that will extract that field.
Now let's look at our other two fields.
These are numeric fields.
But actually that's not a number, that's a string.
And we need it to be a number because we're
going to be performing arithmetic on it.
So let me share with you a little JavaScript tip.
the quickest way to convert a string to a number is to use
( inaudible )
plus. As you see now, now it's a number.
So at this point we have gathered all the
information that we need to write the parsing code.
Let's stop the widget, go back to our source
code and I'm going to drag in the parsing code.
Pretend I'm typing!
This code is pretty much what we just
figured out how to do in the Evaluator.
We start by splitting on carriage return and line feed,
that gives us an array of lines, we loop to the lines.
If a line is an empty string, then we skip it.
We only process the lines that are really there.
We split on comma and then for each line we create an object
with three properties corresponding to
the three fields that we care about.
And using those expressions that
we figured out in the Evaluator
to suitably massage those fields into what we want.
Then we accumulate that object into an array of stocks.
Set a break point here following the loop so that we can
inspect it and let me get rid of this other break point.
And we'll do one more thing before we run the widget.
I want to go and insert that call to
request data that we left out the first time
so that we don't have to simulate it again.
I'm going to put it here in the show method.
Click run.
Up comes the widget, hits our break point and you
can see here we have our local variable, stocks,
it's an array of two elements, we can twist it down,
we can inspect the contents and everything looks right.
No extraneous quotes.
The numbers are numbers, we did it right.
So the only thing that's left is to write these
functions, calculate mood, and display mood.
I've already written them, let me drag
them in and show you what they do.
It's very simple.
Calculate mood is just doing some arithmetic.
It computes the total value of our
portfolio both now and as of close yesterday
and returns a number representing the percentage change.
And if that was a positive number, that means
that the value of our portfolio increased
and so the glass is half full,
otherwise the glass is half empty.
So let's remove this break point and test our widget.
There it goes.
The glass is half empty.
Now I'm in a bad mood.
So, for testing purposes, we'd
like to see the glass be half full.
So how can we do that?
Remember I said there was going to be a back to
this widget where you can configure your portfolio?
Well, while you weren't looking I actually implemented that.
So here it is and let's try some different stocks.
Let's get rid of that loser Apple stock.
What if we invested instead in Adobe?
Wow! That's not enough.
Maybe we have to invest in more Adobe.
I don't know.
Didn't Adobe go up today?
Now the glass will be half full.
So back to slides.
So we've seen how to implement
a common widget design pattern.
We used XML HTTP Request to go out onto the
Web, ask for some data, when the data arrives,
we load it up into our widget following the three P's.
We've also seen some of the features
of Dashcode's JavaScript debugger.
The debugger is not just good for tracking down bugs, it
also has some tools that will help you to figure out how
to write your code correctly in the first place.
Well, now that we've got our widget working,
the next step is going to be to improve the UI.
So for that, I'd like to introduce my
colleague Hau Mingh Ohm, take it away Hau Mingh.
>> Hi there.
My name is Hau Mingh Ohm, same old
Dashcode engineer from last year's session.
Now we've seen how a widget developer like Mike could make
use of Dashcode's incredibly powerful debugging environment
to write a widget with robust functionality.
But you and I know for your users to want to
crave for your widget, it's going to have to possess.
So in this part of the session, we're going
to see how you can make use of Dashcode
to add some of the glamour to your widget.
And using Dashcode, it is simple to go the extra amount.
The big piece of the puzzle to jazz up your UI is this
wonderful parts technology that we're putting into Dashcode.
We're going to make use of one of them in the demo.
Let's have a look at Version 2.0 of the UI.
So, instead of showing that the glass
is half full when the mood is good,
we're going to show a huge smiley when you're happy.
So to do that we're going to make use
of this symbol part from the library.
This is the symbol indicator part.
Now if you go to the library there
are other kind of parts like the
guage part which is the indicator part but
it has a range associated with it.
This is the simple one.
The concept behind this one is pretty easy.
You have one value you are monitoring.
And when that value which is set at a point, you want to
show the user, visually, that you have reached a state.
And there's four states and you use this API, set
value, to change the state by setting it to a new value.
Let's go to the demo machine please.
Okay. This is the widget that you saw earlier on.
Since I'm going to change the UI, I'll start by deleting the
glass image text and the front image.
And then I'm going to set it to be 500 pixels by 500 pixels .
The next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to drag in
the indicator part that I talked about earlier on.
There you go.
I'm just going to eyeball it to the size that I want.
Okay. Now if you go to the attributes inspector pane,
here is where we check out the indicator
part or other parts that you drag in.
Let's take a look at the images.
I know some of you out there actually make use of
this for default traffic light images as the
UI for your widget. Now if it looks right for your
widget, that's fine.
Obviously we're going to change them
to smileys so let's start doing that.
First, we're going to drag into our
widget project and once it's there,
I'm going to make use of the first
state to be the downloading state.
And the second state to be the indifferent state, the
fourth one to be the angry state and the fifth one
to be the static state when you're really, really happy.
And if you flip over to the values tab you will see
the four values that correspond to these four states.
We're going to make use of them in the code.
Now usually while in the front, you do
want to take care of your info button.
You can make it visible.
It's always fun and challenging
to put where your info button is.
Here I want to make it into a nose.
Now we are ready to call up the UI.
Let's go to the file that you saw earlier on.
And I'm going to drag in my own code snippets.
So these are the three values that define the state.
Zero being the default so we don't have to define it.
Go to the function that we saw earlier on.
Again, we want to delete this since we're changing it.
And drag in my own body.
This part here just maps the percentage
change to the stated value.
So if the stock is less than,
went down more than 0.5 percent,
half a percent, then we're mad.
If it goes up by 0.5 percent we're
happy, anything else, we don't care.
The second part here, get hold of the
indicator object and do something to it.
As with other Apple supply classes, when
you need to get hold of the object you want
to manipulate, get hold of the application right here.
Once you get hold of the indicator, you can set value API.
Now, for other parts, if you want to know what other
API you can use, you can read the documentation
but probably most of you wouldn't, so here's a trick.
Go to the code library, just search the part that you want.
In this case, for example, indicator.
And often times you'll find something that probably was so
unique, set indicator value, and there you go, set value.
Okay, so we are ready to run it.
Let's test it!
It's thinking.
Okay, I know what it is going to
be, mad, so but you probably ?
most of you probably don't invest in
this company, but some of you might.
So let's buy a boat load of it.
So I guess Bill is pretty happy today.
All right.
Let's go back to the slides please.
Thank you.
Okay, what you've just learned is that even after
you have come up with the basic functionality
of the widget using Dashcode, it is not difficult to
change the UI and experiment a little bit with it.
And check out the parts library to see if
that's anything that can help you with your UI.
Don't forget that you can actually customize
the parts itself by using inspector panes.
Okay, there are other ways to make your
widgets even more visually appealing.
For example, you can use core graphics operations on the
canvas object. Other ways to take advantage of the
cool Apple technology known as Quartz composition.
We're going to take a QC which is modifiable via JavaScript
and then use the Apple Animator
to feed values directly to the QC.
Again, let's have a look at Version 3.0 of the UI.
Same basic functionality but we're
not happy with the smilies anymore,
we want to have a wheel of fortune to tell us our mood.
And this wheel of fortune is the QC.
The thing about a QC is if you're a QC designer, you can
expose certain parameters in the QC by publishing them
so that it can be modified by using JavaScript.
Now this is actually a very powerful concept that
bridges between JavaScript and quartz composition.
The way they do it is pretty straight forward.
Use the regular get element by the API.
Once you get hold of the element, use the set value API.
Here we're assuming that the published
parameter is called property.
Okay, for those not familiar with the
Apple animator class, here is a review.
Now, as the new cliche
goes, an animation is worth more than ten thousand words.
So I'm going to use an animation to explain it.
The Apple animator takes the duration of the animation, maps
it to a range of value, start and you the widget developer,
provides a function handler so that at each interval
of the animation, the animator will call you back.
And when it calls you back it gives you a new
value that is dependent on where the animator is
and that is visible along the range of values.
In API form, here's the API with the parameters
reflecting the five concepts that we talked about.
Now, Apple animator does the heavy lifting
of driving the animation but you get
to decide how the animation should happen.
So for our case, the new value represents the degree of
the wheel to turn to so we just feed it directly to the QC.
Demo time, okay.
So let's look at the previous widget.
Okay, we're going to start by deleting
dedicator because we don't need it.
And let's drag in the wheel of fortune.
First thing we want to do is, for our case, set it to
transparent and let it show below all the drawn elements.
Again, eyeballing to resize it.
Okay. Let's take care of the info button again.
Because spinning the wheel is so much
fun I'm going to spin it manually.
So here I'm going to use a button to do that.
So let's drag it in.
And let's quickly harmonize the color by going to the even
stroke and making it gradient, choosing a few choice colors.
Give it a stroke.
And I'm going to call it spin the wheel.
Here we go.
And let's make the type bigger so they can see it.
All right, we're all set.
But you've seen how we have to hook
up the function for the unclick event.
And you've seen this function before, it's
request data, so I'm just going to type it in.
All right, at this point we are
now ready to hook up the new UI.
Let's do that.
So we don't need this anymore, steal it back.
Let's go to Version 3 of our code snippets.
These are the values that my QC
designer told me that correspond
to the segment of the wheel that I want to turn to.
And let's go to display mode.
I'm going to keep this chunk of code,
okay, because it's still useful.
All I need to do is delete this and
drag in our create animation code.
This is the important one, the animation handler.
So here we get a new value and set it to
the rotation as I mentioned earlier on.
Now, make sure that a QC has actually
exposed rotation as the published parameter.
Here's the trick.
You select the QC, put it in Inspector, attributes pane,
hit the added parameters button and
you'll see that rotation is there.
Okay? Now, let's run it.
But I know it's you know, we're not going
to be too happy because it's the same.
So is there any stock ticker today that will make me happy?
Anyone? Intel!
Okay, our partner.
INTC? Oh way, first I have to get
rid of something here because...
All right, let's spin it again.
There you go!
All right.
Okay. Now notice that we went from a binary state of UI
like half full/half empty to one with multiple states.
So the lesson here is that you should experiment and evolve
your UI until you find something that not only pleases you
but the one important thing is that your
widget users will use it, they will love it.
And if you need to add motion graphics to
your widget, consider course composition.
Apple Animator Plus, when used judiciously,
will definitely add more spice to your widget.
And finally to wrap up the rest of the UI,
please check your default image and widget icon.
Dashcode does a good job in tracking them
based on the front slide of the image.
But because each widget is different, so just
take a look at them and make sure they look right.
And because strings and majors are part of UI, you want
to make sure that they look good in other languages.
Now that's localization.